Add ASA Client Documentation (#1516)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/asa/clients/index.md

---
title: ASA Clients
category: asa
---

# ASA Clients API

## Get Started

| Product  | API Basics  | API Namespace        |
|----------|-------------|----------------------|
| [Advanced Server Access](https://www.okta.com/products/advanced-server-access/) | [How the ASA API works](../introduction/) | `https://app.scaleft.com/v1/`

An Advanced Server Access (ASA) Client corresponds to a user's device. Clients are the primary way users access servers managed by ASA.

Explore the Clients API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://www.getpostman.com/run-collection/fba803e43a4ae53667d4).

## Clients API Operations

The Clients API has the following operations:
* [List ASA Clients](#list-asa-clients)
* [Fetch an ASA Client](#fetch-an-asa-client)
* [Revoke an ASA Client](#revoke-an-asa-client)
* [Approve or assign an ASA Client](#approve-or-assign-an-asa-client)

### List ASA Clients

> <ApiOperation method="GET" url="https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients" />

Reviewer: is this URL still accurate? It goes to `app.scaleft.com`?

This endpoint returns a list of ASA Clients. By default returns the ASA Clients for the requesting ASA User. Query options can be provided to filter by ASA User or state.

This endpoint requires one of the following roles: `access_admin`, `reporting_user`, `access_user`.

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |

> | `team_name`   | string | The name of your Team. |

Reviewer 2: Because Team's are an ASA-specific concept, this is appropriately capitalized as "Team".

| `prev`   |  boolean | (Optional) The direction of paging. |
| `state`   |  string | (Optional) One of `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, `DELETED`. |
| `username`   |  string | (Optional) List Clients assigned to a single User. An empty string returns unassigned Clients. |

#### Request body

This endpoint has no request body.

#### Response body
This endpoint returns a list of objects with the following fields and a `200` code on a successful call.
| Properties | Type        | Description          |
|----------|-------------|----------------------|
| `description`   | string | A description of the ASA Client. |
| `encrypted`   | boolean | A boolean reflecting whether `sft` was able to determine that the ASA Client was encrypted. |
| `hostname`   | string | The hostname of the ASA Client. |
| `id`   | string | The UUID of the ASA Client. |
| `os`   | string | The OS of the ASA Client device. |
| `state`   | string | The state of the ASA Client. One of: `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, or `DELETED`. |
| `user_name`   | string | The ASA User to whom this ASA Client belongs. |

#### Usage example

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" \

> https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients

Reviewer: is this url still correct? It goes to `app.scaleft.com`

```

##### Response

```json
{
	"list": [
		{

> 			"deleted_at": null,

Reviewer 2: Or in any other tables on this page, for that matter.

			"description": "Work laptop",
			"encrypted": true,
			"hostname": "LightInAugust",
			"id": "9c199afe-0ca5-427a-baac-c4341707d82b",
			"os": "macOS 10.14.6",
			"state": "PENDING",
			"user_name": "Jason.Compson.IV"
		},
		{
			"deleted_at": null,
			"description": "Personal laptop",
			"encrypted": true,
			"hostname": "Absalom",
			"id": "5e9d8179-2fca-4905-8405-3cd3e0c5280e",
			"os": "macOS 10.14.6",
			"state": "ACTIVE",
			"user_name": "Jason.Compson.IV"
		}
	]
}
```
### Fetch an ASA Client

> <ApiOperation method="GET" url="https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}" />

Reviewer: is this URL still accurate? It goes to `app.scaleeft.com`?

> This endpoint fetches a single ASA Client associated with the ID in the path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint fetches a single ASA Client with the specified Client ID on the specified Team.
```

Not sure if "on the Team" is the right phrase, but we should mention the other variable in the path.

This endpoint requires one of the following roles: `access_user`, `access_admin`, `reporting_user`.

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `client_id`   | string | The UUID of the Client. |
| `team_name`   | string | The name of your Team. |

#### Request query parameters

This endpoint has no query parameters.

#### Request body

This endpoint has no request body.

#### Response body
This endpoint returns an object with the following fields and a `200` code on a successful call.
| Properties | Type        | Description          |
|----------|-------------|----------------------|

> | `description`   | string | A description of the ASA Client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `description`   | string | A description of the ASA Client |
```
no period for fragments

> | `encrypted`   | boolean | A boolean reflecting whether `sft` was able to determine that the ASA Client was encrypted. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `encrypted`   | boolean | A boolean that reflects whether `sft` was able to determine that the ASA Client was encrypted |
```
no period for fragments

> | `hostname`   | string | The hostname of the ASA Client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `hostname`   | string | The hostname of the ASA Client |
```
no period for fragments

> | `id`   | string | The UUID of the ASA Client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id`   | string | The UUID of the ASA Client |
```
no period for fragments

> | `os`   | string | The OS of the ASA Client device. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `os`   | string | The OS of the ASA Client device |
```
no period for fragments

> | `state`   | string | The state of the ASA Client. One of: `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, or `DELETED`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `state`   | string | The state of the ASA Client. One of `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, or `DELETED`. |
```

> | `user_name`   | string | The ASA User to whom this ASA Client belongs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `user_name`   | string | The ASA User to whom this ASA Client belongs |
```
no period for fragments

#### Usage example

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" \

> https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}

Reviewer: is this URL still correct? It's going to `app.scaleft.com`?

```

##### Response

```json
{
	"deleted_at": null,
	"description": "Work laptop",
	"encrypted": true,
	"hostname": "LightInAugust",
	"id": "9c199afe-0ca5-427a-baac-c4341707d82b",
	"os": "macOS 10.14.6",
	"state": "PENDING",
	"user_name": "Jason.Compson.IV"
}
```
### Revoke an ASA Client

> <ApiOperation method="DELETE" url="https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}" />

Reviewer: is this URL still correct? It goes to `app.scaleft.com`?

> Revoke an ASA Client's access to this Team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Revokes an ASA Client's access to this team
```

> This endpoint requires one of the following roles: `authenticated_client`, `access_user`, `access_admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint requires one of the following roles: `authenticated_client`, `access_user`, or `access_admin`.
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |

> | `client_id`   | string | The UUID of the Client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `client_id`   | string | The UUID of the Client |
```

> | `team_name`   | string | The name of your Team. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_name`   | string | The name of your team |
```

#### Request query parameters

This endpoint has no query parameters.

#### Request body

This endpoint has no request body.

#### Response body
This endpoint returns a `204 No Content` response on a successful call.

#### Usage example

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" \

> https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}

Reviewer: is this URL still correct? it goes to `app.scaleft.com`?

```

##### Response

```json
HTTP 204 No Content
```
### Approve or assign an ASA Client

> <ApiOperation method="PUT" url="https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}" />

Reviewer: is this URL still correct? It goes to `app.scalefit.com`

> This endpoint approves or assigns an ASA Client to be used by an ASA User. Used for ASA Clients enrolled using a token policy or a policy that requires approval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approves or assigns an ASA Client to be used by an ASA User. Used for ASA Clients enrolled using a token policy or a policy that requires approval.
```

> This endpoint approves or assigns an ASA Client to be used by an ASA User. Used for ASA Clients enrolled using a token policy or a policy that requires approval

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint approves or assigns an ASA Client to be used by an ASA User. Used for ASA Clients enrolled using a token policy or a policy that requires approval.
```

> This endpoint requires one of the following roles: `access_admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint requires the `access_admin` role.
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter | Type        | Description   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |

> | `client_id`   | string | The UUID of the Client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `client_id`   | string | The UUID of the Client |
```

> | `team_name`   | string | The name of your Team. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_name`   | string | The name of your team |
```

#### Request query parameters

This endpoint has no query parameters.

#### Request body

This endpoint requires an object with the following fields.
| Properties | Type        | Description          |
|----------|-------------|----------------------|

> | `state`   | string | The state of the ASA Client. One of: `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, or `DELETED`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `state`   | string | The state of the ASA Client. One of `ACTIVE`, `PENDING`, or `DELETED`. |
```

> | `user_name`   | string | The ASA User to whom this ASA Client belongs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `user_name`   | string | The ASA User to whom this ASA Client belongs |
```

#### Response body
This endpoint returns a `204 No Content` response on a successful call.

#### Usage example

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X PUT \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" \
--data '{
	"state": "ACTIVE",
	"user_name": "Jason.Compson.IV"
}' \

> https://app.scaleft.com/v1/teams/${team_name}/clients/${client_id}

Reviewer: is this URL still accurate? Checking as it is going to `scaleft.com`

Author: This URL is still accurate.

# ASA Clients API

## Get started

| Product  | API Basics  | API Namespace        |
|----------|-------------|----------------------|

> | [Advanced Server Access](https://www.okta.com/products/advanced-server-access/) | [How the ASA API works](docs/reference/api/asa/introduction/) | `https://app.scaleft.com/v1/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Advanced Server Access](https://www.okta.com/products/advanced-server-access/) | [How the ASA API works](/docs/reference/api/asa/introduction/) | `https://app.scaleft.com/v1/`
```
needs a slash before docs. make this change throughout. thanks!
